1-summary.adoc, before:

== Subject
This Engineering Report (ER) documents the results and recommendations of the rapid prototyping activites conducted during the 3D Geospatial Series Tech Sprint II - OGC CDB 2.0 (aka CDB X). This activity was performed in support of Special Operations Forces (SOF) Future Concepts. This effort hopes to accelerate evolution of the OGC CDB standard to meet the needs of planning, rehearsal, and Mission Command systems providing decision support to Special Operations Forces and enabling SOF tactical and operational advantage. OGC industry standards enable interoperability of geospatial data across systems and applications that SOF Operators and analysts use across warfighting functions. 

Short summary of CDB X goal - Meeting the requirements for tactical GEOINT that can be used across warfighting functions.

== Executive Summary

Beginning in 2018 the CDB community has discussed and considered what CDB version 2.0 might might provide in terms of capabilities. These discussion also touched on architecture and related logical models. Many of these CDB 2.0 discussion occured as part of the OGC standards work. More recently, other organizations such as SOCOM and NGA, have vigorously engaged in these discussions. However, progress has been relatively slow.

Therefore, in order to accelerate the development of CDB 2.0, in May 2020 SOFWERX announced the https://events.sofwerx.org/3dgeots/[3D Geospatial Series Tech Sprint II – OGC CDB 2.0]. In support of SOF Future Concepts, this effort hopes to accelerate evolution of the OGC CDB standard to meet the needs of planning, rehearsal, and Mission Command systems providing decision support to Special Operations Forces and enabling SOF tactical and operational advantage. Additionally, a requirement to better align aspects of the CDB standard with the One World Terrain activity was expressed during the initial workshop.

The CBD Tech Sprint was comprised of five (5) key work phases:

Phase 1: 22 June 2020 to 26 June 2020 Virtual Concept Development: In a series of virtual workshop conferences, participants discussed CDB 2.0 requirements and design objectives with a focus on defining conceptual and logical models for the CDB 2.0 standard. The discussion focused on five key topics: Attribution, 3D Models, Vector Data/GeoPackage, Coverage Tiling (and LoDs and general tiling), and Top Level Metadata. This models and related topics discussions served as the basis for technical experimentation in Phase 2.

Phase 2: 06 July 2020 to 31 July 2020 Virtual Tech Sprint: Participants, and/or their organizations, will provide prototype implementations of the conceptual model documented in Phase 1. Through technical integration experimentation, the model will be updated and refined.

Phase 3: 03 August 2020 to 28 August 2020 Engineering Report (ER): Participants will complete the project Engineering Report detailing the conceptual model and results of the technical integration experiments.

Phase 4: 07 September 2020 to 25 September 2020 Proposed Draft Specification: Participants will create a proposed draft specification for “CDB 2.0” based on work in the previous phases, to be submitted to the appropriate working groups within OGC, Khronos, and/or SISO. 

NOTE: Once the experimentation activities started, the particpants in concert with SOFWERX and SOCOM determined that writing a draft specification was beyond the scope of this project. Instead, the focus increased on the experiments and protyping to provide key recommendations to be communicated in this ER and submitted to the OGC CDB Standards Working group (SWG) to provide the foundation for the actual standards development work.

Phase 5: 05 October 2020 to 5 November 2020 Final Report: Participants will write a final report summarizing activities to date, recommendations for the OGC SWG and other standards bodies to consider, and contributions of each participant.

In order to accomplish the target deliverables of this activity, the particpants, based on their expertize, were alloocated to five focus groups:

. 3D Subgroup
. Attribution Subgroup
. Coverages/Tiling Subgroup
. Vectors in GeoPackage Subgroup
. Metadata Subgroup

These teams focused on specific experiments and prototyping tasks to test key design concepts for inclusion in CDB-X. The results are documented in this ER.

=== Recommendations

The following are the key recommendations for changes, enhancements, and design principals for not just CDB-X but also CDB version 1.3. The version 1.3 chnages are viewed as important enhancement that resolve both existing user specified needs as well as helping to provide a transition path for the future major CDB version. The following are the major recommendations. A complete summary of all recommendations can be found in <<Recommendations,Annex A>>.

==== 3D Subgroup

`Recommendation 1`: The 3D model group recommends that a new CDB standard adopts the latest version of OpenFlight, leveraging the extended materials, hot spots and other important constructs it brings.

`Recommendation 2`: Complete the EXT_CDB draft glTF extension that adds required CDB simulation capabilities identified as missing from glTF. The new (and prototype) extension defines CDB-specific constructs such as points, zones, lights, light maps, and extended texture types.

`Recommendation 3`: Consider possible standalone glTF extensions for:
- Coordinate Reference System - Shared interest with One World Terrain and possibly wider glTF ecosystem.
- Switch nodes - Shared interest with One World Terrain moving models format. Note: Node switching is supported in the I3S Community standard.
- External references - Some interest in wider glTF ecosystem, but many unresolved implementation details.

`Recommendation 4`: Leverage existing glTF extensions:
- Articulations - This extension adds articulations, attach points, and related metadata to the glTF model (see AGI_articulations).
- Metadata - Consicer the EXT_feature_metadata extension. This extension is for storing metadata at different levels of granularity including per-mesh, per-face, per-vertex, and per-texel. This could be a good candidate for CDB model attributes and material map textures.

`Recommendation 5`: Consider a Model indexing file that includes the following: Model LODs, Interior and exteriors, Navigation and collision mesh

`Recommendation 6`: To reduce the current number of files in CDB 1.x a recommendation is to group each model data into a zip (all LODs, textures etc…​) while keeping the xml (index file) separate. A quick access to the index file would allow identifying what is required to be loaded into each ZIP. 9See Recommendation 5). This is a possible CDB 1.3 enhancement.


==== Attribution Subgroup

The following are the major recommendations from the Attribution Subgroup. Each of these major recommendation contain multiple "minor" recommendations that result from cosidering the major recommendation. The complete list of major/minor recommendations for Attribution are found in both the Attribution section and <<Recommendations,Annex A>>.

`Recommendation 1`: The subgroup recommends extending the current CDB XML metadata to add the NAS metamodel capabilities that are currently not supported. 

`Recommendation 2 and design goal`: The CDB core conceptual model should not mandate any particular data dictionary or content, but rather provide the conceptual and logical metamodel for describing any ISO 19109 compliant application schema to the maximum extent practical. There should be no technical reason why one could not develop an extension profile for CDB for any particular data dictionary that complies with ISO 19109.

`Recommendation 3`: Adopt NAS-compliant logical entity-attribute model for CDB X with extensions for CDB use cases.

`Recommendation 4`: Delegate entity and attribute physical encoding choices to vector and 3D model containers instead of specifying globally.

`Recommendation 5`: Define backward-compatible extensions in CDB 1.3 to add constructs necessary to move toward NAS-compliant attribution

The following are recommendatoins for possible inclusion in CDB version 1.3.

`Version 1.3 Recommendation - Extended Attributes` The subgroup discussion on this topic is titled: https://github.com/sofwerx/cdb2-concept/issues/25[Should Extended Attributes be preserved at the logical data model level?] The suggestion is that the CDB SWG discuss this issue and possible solution as a possible change for CDB version 1.3. Some additional testing may be required to determine if this capability can be added to version 1.3 or not.

`Verison 1.3 Recommendation - Attribute default values` The subgroup discussion on this topic is titled: https://github.com/sofwerx/cdb2-concept/issues/32[Attribute Default Values #32]. The recommendation is that Defaults.xml can be used to define global attribute defaults as well as per-dataset defaults. Doing per-entity defaults would be a straight forward extension that could be proposed for CDB 1.3 as a transition path. The subgroup suggests that the CDB SWG discussion this for possible inclusion in version 1.3. A change request for this approach to specifying default values is also suggested.

`Version 1.3 Recommendation - Attribute Terms` The subgroup discussion on this topic is titled: https://github.com/sofwerx/cdb2-concept/issues/31[Capture Attribute Terms (Enumerants) in Metadata #31]. Attributes describing qualitative values are present in CDB 1.2 and the list of valid values  for each attribute are documented in the human-readable specification with both the vocabulary term name and its integer numeric value (index). However, the machine-readable XML metadata does not contain any of this information and treats these attribute types as raw integers with only a minimum and maximum value constraint. It may make sense as a transition path to update CDB 1.3 to define additional XML elements in a backward compatible way to capture these definitions from the existing specification into the machine-readable XML metadata. The conceptual model in the CDB 1.2 specification does align with how GGDM treats such attributes, so there is no fundamental incompatibility, and the proposed CDB X dictionary design accounts for properly tracking the terms for qualitative attributes in a machine-readable way in SQLite.

==== Coverages/Tiling Subgroup

==== Metadata Subgroup

==== Vectors in GeoPackage Subgroup



===	Document contributor contact points

All questions regarding this document should be directed to the editor or the contributors:

*Contacts*
[width="80%",options="header",caption=""]
|====================
|Name |Organization | Role
| David Graham | Eaglecapsystems | Editor
| Carl Reed, PhD | Carl Reed & Associates | Editor
| Kevin Bentley | Cognitics | Contributor
| Holly Black | CAE | Contributor
| Hermann Bressard | Presagis | Contributor
| Patrick Cozzi | CESIUM | Contributor
| Brian Ford | FlightSafety | Contributor
| Ryan Franz | FlightSafety | Contributor
| Jay Freeman | CAE | Contributor
| Jérôme Jacovella-St-Louis | Ecere | Contributor
| Michala Hill | Cognitics | Facilitator/Contributor
| Greg Peele | Geometric Progress | Contributor
| Vaughn Whisker | ARL PSU | Contributor
| Tracey Birch | CloudLake/USSOCOM SOF AT&L | Emeritus
|====================


// *****************************************************************************
// Editors please do not change the Foreword. Note out for now until goes to the OGC
// *****************************************************************************
//=== Foreword
//
// Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject of patent rights. The Open Geospatial Consortium shall not be held // responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights.
//
// Recipients of this document are requested to submit, with their comments, notification of any relevant patent claims or other intellectual property rights of which they may // be aware that might be infringed by any implementation of the standard set forth in this document, and to provide supporting documentation.

Commit message:

Add recommendations for Coverages/Tiling

1-summary.adoc, after:

== Subject
This Engineering Report (ER) documents the results and recommendations of the rapid prototyping activites conducted during the 3D Geospatial Series Tech Sprint II - OGC CDB 2.0 (aka CDB X). This activity was performed in support of Special Operations Forces (SOF) Future Concepts. This effort hopes to accelerate evolution of the OGC CDB standard to meet the needs of planning, rehearsal, and Mission Command systems providing decision support to Special Operations Forces and enabling SOF tactical and operational advantage. OGC industry standards enable interoperability of geospatial data across systems and applications that SOF Operators and analysts use across warfighting functions. 

Short summary of CDB X goal - Meeting the requirements for tactical GEOINT that can be used across warfighting functions.

== Executive Summary

Beginning in 2018 the CDB community has discussed and considered what CDB version 2.0 might might provide in terms of capabilities. These discussion also touched on architecture and related logical models. Many of these CDB 2.0 discussion occured as part of the OGC standards work. More recently, other organizations such as SOCOM and NGA, have vigorously engaged in these discussions. However, progress has been relatively slow.

Therefore, in order to accelerate the development of CDB 2.0, in May 2020 SOFWERX announced the https://events.sofwerx.org/3dgeots/[3D Geospatial Series Tech Sprint II – OGC CDB 2.0]. In support of SOF Future Concepts, this effort hopes to accelerate evolution of the OGC CDB standard to meet the needs of planning, rehearsal, and Mission Command systems providing decision support to Special Operations Forces and enabling SOF tactical and operational advantage. Additionally, a requirement to better align aspects of the CDB standard with the One World Terrain activity was expressed during the initial workshop.

The CBD Tech Sprint was comprised of five (5) key work phases:

Phase 1: 22 June 2020 to 26 June 2020 Virtual Concept Development: In a series of virtual workshop conferences, participants discussed CDB 2.0 requirements and design objectives with a focus on defining conceptual and logical models for the CDB 2.0 standard. The discussion focused on five key topics: Attribution, 3D Models, Vector Data/GeoPackage, Coverage Tiling (and LoDs and general tiling), and Top Level Metadata. This models and related topics discussions served as the basis for technical experimentation in Phase 2.

Phase 2: 06 July 2020 to 31 July 2020 Virtual Tech Sprint: Participants, and/or their organizations, will provide prototype implementations of the conceptual model documented in Phase 1. Through technical integration experimentation, the model will be updated and refined.

Phase 3: 03 August 2020 to 28 August 2020 Engineering Report (ER): Participants will complete the project Engineering Report detailing the conceptual model and results of the technical integration experiments.

Phase 4: 07 September 2020 to 25 September 2020 Proposed Draft Specification: Participants will create a proposed draft specification for “CDB 2.0” based on work in the previous phases, to be submitted to the appropriate working groups within OGC, Khronos, and/or SISO. 

NOTE: Once the experimentation activities started, the particpants in concert with SOFWERX and SOCOM determined that writing a draft specification was beyond the scope of this project. Instead, the focus increased on the experiments and protyping to provide key recommendations to be communicated in this ER and submitted to the OGC CDB Standards Working group (SWG) to provide the foundation for the actual standards development work.

Phase 5: 05 October 2020 to 5 November 2020 Final Report: Participants will write a final report summarizing activities to date, recommendations for the OGC SWG and other standards bodies to consider, and contributions of each participant.

In order to accomplish the target deliverables of this activity, the particpants, based on their expertize, were alloocated to five focus groups:

. 3D Subgroup
. Attribution Subgroup
. Coverages/Tiling Subgroup
. Vectors in GeoPackage Subgroup
. Metadata Subgroup

These teams focused on specific experiments and prototyping tasks to test key design concepts for inclusion in CDB-X. The results are documented in this ER.

=== Recommendations

The following are the key recommendations for changes, enhancements, and design principals for not just CDB-X but also CDB version 1.3. The version 1.3 chnages are viewed as important enhancement that resolve both existing user specified needs as well as helping to provide a transition path for the future major CDB version. The following are the major recommendations. A complete summary of all recommendations can be found in <<Recommendations,Annex A>>.

==== 3D Subgroup

`Recommendation 1`: The 3D model group recommends that a new CDB standard adopts the latest version of OpenFlight, leveraging the extended materials, hot spots and other important constructs it brings.

`Recommendation 2`: Complete the EXT_CDB draft glTF extension that adds required CDB simulation capabilities identified as missing from glTF. The new (and prototype) extension defines CDB-specific constructs such as points, zones, lights, light maps, and extended texture types.

`Recommendation 3`: Consider possible standalone glTF extensions for:
- Coordinate Reference System - Shared interest with One World Terrain and possibly wider glTF ecosystem.
- Switch nodes - Shared interest with One World Terrain moving models format. Note: Node switching is supported in the I3S Community standard.
- External references - Some interest in wider glTF ecosystem, but many unresolved implementation details.

`Recommendation 4`: Leverage existing glTF extensions:
- Articulations - This extension adds articulations, attach points, and related metadata to the glTF model (see AGI_articulations).
- Metadata - Consicer the EXT_feature_metadata extension. This extension is for storing metadata at different levels of granularity including per-mesh, per-face, per-vertex, and per-texel. This could be a good candidate for CDB model attributes and material map textures.

`Recommendation 5`: Consider a Model indexing file that includes the following: Model LODs, Interior and exteriors, Navigation and collision mesh

`Recommendation 6`: To reduce the current number of files in CDB 1.x a recommendation is to group each model data into a zip (all LODs, textures etc…​) while keeping the xml (index file) separate. A quick access to the index file would allow identifying what is required to be loaded into each ZIP. 9See Recommendation 5). This is a possible CDB 1.3 enhancement.


==== Attribution Subgroup

The following are the major recommendations from the Attribution Subgroup. Each of these major recommendation contain multiple "minor" recommendations that result from cosidering the major recommendation. The complete list of major/minor recommendations for Attribution are found in both the Attribution section and <<Recommendations,Annex A>>.

`Recommendation 1`: The subgroup recommends extending the current CDB XML metadata to add the NAS metamodel capabilities that are currently not supported. 

`Recommendation 2 and design goal`: The CDB core conceptual model should not mandate any particular data dictionary or content, but rather provide the conceptual and logical metamodel for describing any ISO 19109 compliant application schema to the maximum extent practical. There should be no technical reason why one could not develop an extension profile for CDB for any particular data dictionary that complies with ISO 19109.

`Recommendation 3`: Adopt NAS-compliant logical entity-attribute model for CDB X with extensions for CDB use cases.

`Recommendation 4`: Delegate entity and attribute physical encoding choices to vector and 3D model containers instead of specifying globally.

`Recommendation 5`: Define backward-compatible extensions in CDB 1.3 to add constructs necessary to move toward NAS-compliant attribution

The following are recommendatoins for possible inclusion in CDB version 1.3.

`Version 1.3 Recommendation - Extended Attributes` The subgroup discussion on this topic is titled: https://github.com/sofwerx/cdb2-concept/issues/25[Should Extended Attributes be preserved at the logical data model level?] The suggestion is that the CDB SWG discuss this issue and possible solution as a possible change for CDB version 1.3. Some additional testing may be required to determine if this capability can be added to version 1.3 or not.

`Verison 1.3 Recommendation - Attribute default values` The subgroup discussion on this topic is titled: https://github.com/sofwerx/cdb2-concept/issues/32[Attribute Default Values #32]. The recommendation is that Defaults.xml can be used to define global attribute defaults as well as per-dataset defaults. Doing per-entity defaults would be a straight forward extension that could be proposed for CDB 1.3 as a transition path. The subgroup suggests that the CDB SWG discussion this for possible inclusion in version 1.3. A change request for this approach to specifying default values is also suggested.

`Version 1.3 Recommendation - Attribute Terms` The subgroup discussion on this topic is titled: https://github.com/sofwerx/cdb2-concept/issues/31[Capture Attribute Terms (Enumerants) in Metadata #31]. Attributes describing qualitative values are present in CDB 1.2 and the list of valid values  for each attribute are documented in the human-readable specification with both the vocabulary term name and its integer numeric value (index). However, the machine-readable XML metadata does not contain any of this information and treats these attribute types as raw integers with only a minimum and maximum value constraint. It may make sense as a transition path to update CDB 1.3 to define additional XML elements in a backward compatible way to capture these definitions from the existing specification into the machine-readable XML metadata. The conceptual model in the CDB 1.2 specification does align with how GGDM treats such attributes, so there is no fundamental incompatibility, and the proposed CDB X dictionary design accounts for properly tracking the terms for qualitative attributes in a machine-readable way in SQLite.

==== Coverages/Tiling Subgroup



`Recommendation 1`: Any tiling schemes specified in a CDB X data store (repository) SHALL be based on and consistent with the: OGC Core Tiling Conceptual and Logical Models for 2D Euclidean Space (19-014r3) and OGC Two Dimensional Tile Matrix Set Standard (17-083r2)

`Recommendation 2`: LoD Grouping - For users at the edge and smaller areas, that all the CDB-X coverage layers be present within a single GeoPackage container. 

`Recommendation 3`: LoD Grouping - For Modeling and Simulation uses as well as data repository cases, that a series of GeoPackage containers be used to store CDB X coverage layers. 

`Recommendation 4`: Define the capability for splitting GeoPackages based on a specific tiling scheme outside of the CDB X standard so that this split content can be used by itself as a compontent of other non-CDB based applications.

`Recommendation 5`: Use the proposed cdb.json index of packages and data layers. This would allow defining the description of the packages and LOD grouping outside of the CDB-XX standard so that description can be used elsewhere as well.

`Recommendation 6`: Elevation min-max - Move the minimum and maximum elevation values for the gridded elevation coverage contained in a tile to the tile metadata.

`Recommendation 7`: Image Compression - That loss-less and lossy image compression solutions be explored for use in CDB-X. Any such solutions are not viewed as a replacement for JPEG 2000 but instead as alternatives. 

`Recommendation 8`: Materials - CDB-X needs to support material data to provide the same functionality as CDB 1.x. To also reduce the number of files, this can be accomplished by putting all the raster material data (including material table) in a single CDB data layer in GeoPackage, perhaps using the GeoPackage Related Tables Extension.

`Recommendation 9`: Although the use of non-tiled vector data layers (e.g. storing the geometry as WKB in GeoPackage features tables) should also be specified in the CDB Standard, the use of a tiled vector data extension should also be allowed. In particular, tiling vector data is essential for dealing with features spanning a very large geospatial extent, such as coastlines.

`Recommendation 10`: GeoPackage. The imagery in these GeoPackages is lossy. Therefore, allow the use of JPEG-2000 and/or additional lossless formats more compact than PNG in GeoPackages. This should be submitted as a chnage request to the GeoPackage Standards Working Group.

Recommendation note: Supporting more than one tiling scheme in a version of CDB is not recommended. The choice of the tiling scheme is foundational to how data layers are processed and stored and accessed. 

==== Metadata Subgroup


==== Vectors in GeoPackage Subgroup



===	Document contributor contact points

All questions regarding this document should be directed to the editor or the contributors:

*Contacts*
[width="80%",options="header",caption=""]
|====================
|Name |Organization | Role
| David Graham | Eaglecapsystems | Editor
| Carl Reed, PhD | Carl Reed & Associates | Editor
| Kevin Bentley | Cognitics | Contributor
| Holly Black | CAE | Contributor
| Hermann Bressard | Presagis | Contributor
| Patrick Cozzi | CESIUM | Contributor
| Brian Ford | FlightSafety | Contributor
| Ryan Franz | FlightSafety | Contributor
| Jay Freeman | CAE | Contributor
| Jérôme Jacovella-St-Louis | Ecere | Contributor
| Michala Hill | Cognitics | Facilitator/Contributor
| Greg Peele | Geometric Progress | Contributor
| Vaughn Whisker | ARL PSU | Contributor
| Tracey Birch | CloudLake/USSOCOM SOF AT&L | Emeritus
|====================


// *****************************************************************************
// Editors please do not change the Foreword. Note out for now until goes to the OGC
// *****************************************************************************
//=== Foreword
//
// Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this document may be the subject of patent rights. The Open Geospatial Consortium shall not be held // responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights.
//
// Recipients of this document are requested to submit, with their comments, notification of any relevant patent claims or other intellectual property rights of which they may // be aware that might be infringed by any implementation of the standard set forth in this document, and to provide supporting documentation.
